This conversation is about big data and its impact on economic and financial forecasting. Shouyang Wang, an expert in economic and financial forecasting, explains that the traditional forecasting methods face challenges due to their timeliness problems, limited depth of data mining, statistical bias, and the complexity of the economic situation. On the other hand, big data-driven forecasting methods collect multi-source heterogeneous data and build a comprehensive forecasting framework by applying machine learning, deep learning, complex network, natural language processing, and other information technologies. However, these methods need to address issues such as data supply, feature engineering, and core technology.

Wang also discusses the difference and relation between economic and financial data forecasting driven by big data and traditional economic and financial data forecasting. While the differences lie in methodology and data-driven modeling, the relation between the two lies in subjective transcendental constructions of traditional theories, data screening, and the importance of causal analysis.

Moreover, Wang highlights the characteristics of the research paradigm of economic and financial data forecasting in the complexity management system based on big data analysis. This includes introducing the "black box mechanism," focusing on both correlation and accurate estimation of target variables, using the "counterfactual" framework, and adopting new standards focusing on forecasting accuracy.

Finally, Wang discusses the development trends of economic and financial modeling and forecasting methods based on big data. These include depicting the characteristics of high-frequency and longer span data, modeling and application of high-dimensional unstructured data, and making full use of the combination of model selection and forecasting. To further expand the forecasting theory in economy and finance in the face of big data with high-dimensional, unstructured, spatio-temporal attributes, Wang suggests addressing the issues of feature extraction, modeling technology, and interpretability.
